Consent Form
============

This document highlights important information you should know about before
participating in this study. If you
have questions/concerns, contact [CONTACT].

Participation Agreement
-----------------------

To participate in the study, you agree to the following:

- to provide the research team with contact and Internet service information,
  and notify the team if this information changes (e.g. if you move or change
  your Internet provider or service plan),
- to keep the measurement device that we provide you powered and connected to
  the Internet, 
- to not attempt to alter, disable, or repurpose the device that we provide, 
- to not damage, discard, sell, or abandon the device,
- to return your router to the research team if requested, and
- to read and understand the supplemental Privacy and Remote Access statements
  below.

You must agree to the terms of the participation agreement prior to
participating. If you do not agree with the terms of the participation
agreement, please do not connect the measurement device, and contact us to
return it to the research team.

You may terminate your participation in the study at any time by
notifying the team and returning your measurement device. If you request it,
the research team will also avoid using any measurements collected from your
device for the study and will delete this data upon your request.

THE MEASUREMENT DEVICE AND ASSOCIATED SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE CREATORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE DEVICE OR
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE DEVICE OR SOFTWARE.

This study has two parts: (1) ISP performance measurement; and (2) applciation
performance measurement. ISP performance measurement only measures network
performance using test traffic that we introduce from the device installed on
your home network. It does not measure anything about your Internet usage. The
second part of the study, application performance measurement, collects
certain information about how people in your home use the Internet, as
described below. While the second part of the study involves additional
privacy considerations and risks, it can provide you more information about
how the specific applications that you use perform on your network, allowing
you additional specific information that you can use as evidence of how good
(or bad) your Internet service is.


ISP Performance Measurement
===========================

Summary
-------

The measurement device we provide you collects measurements of your ISP's
network and the performance of your Internet service based on traffic and
requests generated by the software (active measurements). **The device
does not collect information from your network traffic.** The team collects
information about your location and your Internet service, as well as your
contact information, as part of the enrollment process. Information about your
Internet service, location, and performance measurements will be used to
present an online report of your network performance, and to conduct research
related to home network and broadband Internet performance. 

Your contact information will be retained for the duration of your
participation in the study only as a way of communicating with you about study
coordination. We will not share your contact information, or any information
about your participation in this study, with anyone.

What We Collect and How We Use It
---------------------------------

This statement describes the information collected as part of your
participation in this study, as well as how this information is used, disclosed,
and retained. 

This statement does not attempt to characterize the risks of
collecting or storing the information, or the disclosure of this information as
described below. You should assess and accept the risks of participating in
the study before you agree to participate.

We collect three types of information, for the following purposes:

- **Participant Information** is collected as part of the enrollment process. This
  information will be used to maintain contact with participants for the
  duration of the study.
- **Service Information** is also collected as part of the enrollment process. This
  information will be used for research, analysis, and evaluation of broadband
  Internet service performance.
- **Active Measurement Information** is collected by the measurement device
  device provided to participants for the duration of their participation in
  the study. This information will be used for research, analysis, and
  evaluation of broadband Internet service performance. Active Measurement
  Information is collected only from active measurements generated by the
  measurement device. Network traffic generated by the participant is
  not measured or observed.


Specific examples of information collected in each of these categories is given
below:

**Participant Information**

- name
- email address
- telephone number

**Service Information**

- broadband Internet service provider
- broadband Internet service termination location (e.g. street address,
  town/city, state/province, country)
- broadband Internet service specifications (e.g. access technology, promised
  upload and download rates, data transfer caps, etc.)

**Active Measurement Information**

- throughput (speed) from the gateway to measurement servers
- latency (ping time) from the gateway to Internet locations
- DNS resolution via ISP DNS server
- ISP network topology & network management behavior
- gateway WAN interface IP address, likely your ISP-provided public IP address

### Personally-identifiable information

We consider the following information to be personally-identifiable information
(PII), and we will not disclose it except as indicated under "Information
disclosure" below:

- name
- email address
- telephone number
- street address of the Internet service termination location
- gateway MAC addresses

Other information collected as part your participation in this study (e.g., ISP,
network topology, or IP address) could potentially be used to identify you in
certain circumstances. You must assess and accept the risks of participating in
this study before you agree to participate.

You Can Inspect What We Collect
-------------------------------

You can view and download the Service Information and Active Measurement
Information (excluding PII) we have collected as part of your participation at
our website [PROVIDE LINK].


How the Information Will Be Used and Shared
-------------------------------------------

All of the information described above will be collected, maintained, and used
by the researchers. We may disclose this information outside of the research
team in the following ways:

- Active Measurement Information and Service Information, with the exception of
  PII, will be accessible on LINK to anyone who knows the LAN
  MAC address of your measurement device.
- From time to time, Active Measurement Information and Service Information
  excluding PII may be made available to collaborators working with the
  research
  team for research purposes. Collaborators shall also be bound by the
  information disclosure constraints described in this document.
- Some Active Measurement Information, excluding PII, will be made publicly
  accessible via summary statistics and maps.
- The researchers will use the Active Measurement Information and Service
  Information to produce articles, reports, and
  presentations that will be published and publicly accessible. These results
  will typically contain aggregated and derivative information. Occasionally,
  for the sake of example, they may contain
  raw Active Measurement Information or Service Information, excluding PII.
- Any information collected as part of this study, including PII, may
  potentially be disclosed in response to a lawful request by law enforcement
  or other legal processes or authorities.

Information Retention and Security
----------------------------------

Participant Information and personally-identifiable information will be
retained for the duration of the study, or until you choose to terminate your
participation in the study. Service Information and Active Measurement
Information (excluding PII) will be retained for at least the duration of the
study.

We take measures to protect the information collected as described above. We
encrypt information as it is transmitted between the measurement device and our
servers, or between your computer and our servers during enrollment. We have
implemented access controls to limit access to information stored on our
servers.

To control the measurement experiments run on the measurement device, as
well as to upgrade and troubleshoot devices when they are installed in
participants' homes, the device has limited remote access capabilities.
Authorized members of the research team have the capability to execute scripts
and obtain shell access on the measurement device installed in your home. These
capabilities will only be used for performing active measurements or for
performing maintenance.


Application Performance Measurement
===================================

Summary
-------

You have the option to participate in a version of this study that involves
additionall collecting information about the performance of specific
applications you may be using. For example, software we have developed has the
ability to measure the quality of a Zoom call, YouTube video session, and so
forth. Performing these measurements, of course, requires knowing that you are
participating in a video conference or streaming a video in the first place,
and so naturally these kinds of measurements have special privacy
considerations, which we discuss below.  

You can opt out of participation in Application Performance Measurement while
still participating in the first part of the study that only involves active
measurements.

This part of the study collects limited information about how and when devices
on your home network access the Internet. Specifically, it collects
information about the devices connected to your home network, the type and
amount of network traffic transferred by these devices, the domain names of
popular Internet sites accessed by these devices, and the frequency of such
access.  **The device never inspects or captures the application-level
contents of your network traffic.** 

This statement describes the information collected as part of your participation
in this part of the study, as well as how this information is used, disclosed, and
retained. This statement does not attempt to characterize the risks of
collecting or storing the information, or the disclosure of this information as
described below. You must assess and accept the risks of participating in
this part of the study before you agree to participate.

Information We **Do Not** Collect
---------------------------------

- **We do not collect URLs or any information about the sites you visit.** For
  popular Web sites, we only record the domain name of the Web site. For
  example, if you watch a video on YouTube, we will record the fact that you
  visited www.youtube.com, but not the specific URL of the video, which would
  indicate the video you watched.
- **We do not collect Personally Identifiable Information (PII).**
  We do not record your name, e-mail address, mailing address, MAC addresses or
  IP addresses except as described above and in this Privacy Statement.
  We never request or record financial information, social security numbers,
  birth dates, etc.
- **We do not collect application packet contents.** We do not
  monitor the contents of e-mails, chat conversations, phone calls, file
  downloads, Web page contents, Internet login credentials, or anything else
  about your online activities except as described above.


Information We Collect, and Why We Collect It
---------------------------------------------

Active Performance Measurements collect the following types of information
about every device that accesses the Internet in your home:

- We record the manufacturer of each network device that accesses
  the Internet using your measurement device by recording the first three bytes of each
  device's hardware identifier (MAC address). We use this information to
  differentiate between classes of devices (e.g., a video game console vs. a
  desktop computer). This helps us determine, for example, whether you are
  watching a video on a phone, tablet, smart TV, or other device, so that we can
  better understand the nature of the performance that you are experiencing when
  using these applications.
- We count the number of times your devices communicate with
  **popular** Internet domains and subdomains. For example, if you visit
  https://maps.google.com, we will record `maps.google.com`, because
  `google.com` is on the list of popular domains. We collect this information to
  understand the frequency with which people access popular Internet sites. The
  set of domains that are monitored is based on the Alexa "Top Sites" list
  (http://www.alexa.com/topsites), and you can alter this list of monitored
  domains, or completely disable this collection activity. We do not
  record attempts to communicate with any site that is not on the list that we
  provide you, and you can also opt out of collection of this information for
  any or all domains that you choose. 
- We collect the types of network applications your devices use,
  and how frequently each application is used, by recording the quantity of
  network traffic associated with each TCP or UDP port number. We collect this
  information to understand the types of applications people commonly use from
  their home network. Examples of network applications include Web browsing,
  e-mail, instant messaging, and Skype.
- We collect information about the distribution of network traffic
  by recording the size of each unit of information (packet) transmitted through
  your meausrement device, as well as the date and time at which the transmission
  occured. We collect this information to understand what an "average" home
  network traffic distribution looks like.

Although we believe it is unlikely, the above information could be used to
identify you in certain circumstances. 


Examples of Collected Information
---------------------------------

The following examples illustrate the types of information collected in
different usage scenarios related to watching a video on
YouTube:

- **Watching a YouTube video on your laptop while it is *not* connected to your
  measurement device.** We will not record any information in this case
  because it only monitors network activity through your measurement device.
- **Watching a YouTube video on your laptop while it is connected to your
  measurement device.** The device will collect:
    - the fact that you visited youtube.com, because YouTube is on the list of
      popular sites,
    - the amount of data of transferred to and from your laptop, including the
      size and timestamp of each packet transferred,
    - the fact that the data transferred to and from your your laptop occured
      via a Web browser (TCP ports 53, 80, and 443), and
    - the manufacturer of your laptop's network card.
- **Watching a YouTube video on your laptop after removing youtube.com from the
  list of popular sites.** The device will not record the fact that you
  visited YouTube. The device will still record other general information
  about this activity:
    - the amount of data of transferred to and from your laptop, including the
      size and timestamp of each packet transferred,
    - the fact that the data transferred to and from your your laptop occured
      via a Web browser (TCP ports 53, 80, and 443), and
    - the manufacturer of your laptop's network card.
- **Visiting a subdomain of a popular site.** Suppose you read a blog post at
  https://yourfriendsblog.blogspot.com/posts/my-first-post. If you haven't
  removed Blogspot from the list of popular sites then the device will
  record the fact that you visited `yourfriendsblog.blogspot.com` (not just
  `blogspot.com` and not the full URL.)

You Can Inspect What We Collect
-------------------------------

You can view and download the Service Information and Application Performance
Measurements (excluding PII) we have collected as part of your participation at
our website [PROVIDE LINK].


How the Information Will Be Used and Shared
-------------------------------------------

All of the information described above will be collected, maintained, and used
by the research team. We may disclose this information outside of the
research team in the following ways:
- The research team will use the collected data to produce scholarly
  works such as articles, reports, and presentations that will be published and
  publicly accessible. These results will typically contain aggregated and
  derivative information, but may contain raw information, excluding PII as
  noted in the Privacy Statement.
- Any information collected as part of this study may potentially be
  disclosed in response to a lawful request by law enforcement or other legal
  processes or authorities.

Information Retention and Security
----------------------------------

All data collected during this study will be retained for the duration of the
study, or until you choose to terminate your participation in the study.

We take measures to protect the information collected as described above. We
encrypt information as it is transmitted between the measurement device and
our servers, or between your computer and our servers during enrollment. We
have implemented access controls to limit access to information stored on our
servers.
